Live Performance Summary Assignment #2

This document is a report on the UT Austin Jazz Ensemble played on Thursday, May 3, at the Bates Concert Hall. The performance consisted of a big-band ensemble - trombones, saxophones, trumpets, rhythm with drums and bass, and a piano. 

Joshua
This piece, called Joshua, originally hard bop before its arrangement in "hot" swing. It is very bold in volume and tempo, and there is a lot of energy in this composition, and has a high variation of beat distribution, especially from the drums. As a piece originally produced by the Miles Davis Quintet, it's interesting that there isn't a trumpet solo included for its tempo and energy, as Davis was a technically powerful performer.

All of Me
All of Me is a much less bombastic piece than Joshua, but that isn't to say it lacks energy. The atmosphere that I get from it is it sounds like a night on the town. It is not surprising to see that it's a Count Basie piece, as it carries a similarity to One O'Clock Jump, but with a greater calm and suave progression. 

Signify
Signify is a hard-bop piece with a clearly defined drum section throughout the piece, guiding the brass together. Each of the notes provided by the sections were frequently at the same time, bringing a sense of harmony. The guitar present in this piece adds elements of fusion to the mix. There is a clear motif that really brings the whole composition together.

Don't Hate the Player
Don't Hate the Player is a swing piece, identifiable by the swing rhythm of the drums. This piece has playful energy, like what one might hear at a casino, raising the stakes and sliding by as a high roller. It bears a similarity to the earlier piece, All of Me.

Caravan
By Juan Tizol, trombonist of the Duke Ellington Orchestra, Caravan starts out slow and suspenseful, before moving to a more quick section with a hop in its step. The Latin influences are clear in this piece, and the saxophone solo emotes both soul and technicality. Interestingly enough, this piece isn't much like anything else we've listened to in this class, perhaps because of the lack of similar Latin-based pieces.

Filthy McNasty
Originally a composition by Horace Silver, a hard bop composer, the song seemed to have little to do with the name until some of the solos, at which point the name is related to the manner in which instruments slide around on the notes. Smooth, but swift. This piece is much like Art Blakey's "Shaw Nuff".

Pride
This piece, Pride, is by the same composer that played "Sloth", featured in the last report. It starts cool, lush, easy-to-listen to, but ramps up into a volume and intensity almost overbearing, which is perhaps the point behind the piece. The drumming is very distinctly similar to "Pride". 

High Maintenance
